cfp: Adding the options to get the DNS rules (#2)
hemanthmalla/design-cfps: cilium/CFP-30984-dns-proxy-ha.md

![Standalone DNS proxy Overview](./images/standalone-dns-proxy-overview.png)

> There are two parts to enforcing toFQDN network policy. L4 policy enforcement against IP adresses resolved from a FQDN and policy enforcement on DNS requests (L7 DNS policy). In order to enforce L4 policy, per endpoint policy bpf maps need to be updated. We'd like to avoid multiple processes writing entries to policy maps, so the standalone DNS proxy (SDP) needs a mechansim to notify agent of newly resolved FQDN <> IP address mappings. This CFP proposes exposing a new gRPC streaming API from cilium agent to do this. Cilium agent can re-use the same connection to notify the SDP of L7 DNS policy changes. Additionally SDP also needs to translate IP address to endpoint ID and identity in order to enforce policy by reusing the logic from agent's DNS proxy. Our proposal involves retrieving the endpoint and identity data directly from the `cilium_lxc` and `cilium_ipcache` BPF maps, respectively.

Reviewer: Why is `Since the connection is bi-directional` part removed ?

Author: We never added the bidirectional grpc options in the proposal. So I removed it.

Reviewer: We do mention notify SDP in `Option 1: Running the GRPC sever in the agent` though, that's the bi-directional part right ?

Author: I see what you mean. My bad was thinking more along the lines of bidirectional rpc streams.

There are two parts to enforcing toFQDN network policy. L4 policy enforcement against IP adresses resolved from a FQDN and policy enforcement on DNS requests (L7 DNS policy). In order to enforce L4 policy, per endpoint policy bpf maps need to be updated. We'd like to avoid multiple processes writing entries to policy maps, so the standalone DNS proxy (SDP) needs a mechansim to notify agent of newly resolved FQDN <> IP address mappings. This CFP proposes exposing a new gRPC streaming API from cilium agent to do this. Since the connection is bi-directional, cilium agent can re-use the same connection to notify the SDP of L7 DNS policy changes.
Additionally SDP also needs to translate IP address to endpoint ID and identity in order to enforce policy by reusing the logic from agent's DNS proxy. Our proposal involves retrieving the endpoint and identity data directly from the `cilium_lxc` and `cilium_ipcache` BPF maps, respectively.

### RPC Methods

Method : UpdateMappings

_rpc UpdatesMappings(steam FQDNMapping) returns (Result){}_
Request :
```
message FQDNMapping {
    string FQDN = 1;
    repeated bytes IPS = 2;
    int32 TTL = 3;
    bytes client_ip = 4;

>     int32 response_code = 5;

Reviewer: Why do we need a response code here ?

Reviewer: This is for DNS response codes, mostly for telemetry in CA

Method : UpdatesDNSRules

> _rpc UpdatesDNSRules(Request) returns (stream DNSPolicyRules){}_

Reviewer: Are we sure the flip is necessary here ?

Author: It seems more intuitive to me as DNSPolicyRules are being returned to the SDP.

Reviewer: `UpdatesDNSRules` is intended to be invoked from agent when there is a policy update, so cannot flip the order right ?

Author: Yes, `UpdateDNSRules` is intended to invoked from agent. How would the agent know about invoking the SDP ? So in this case, SDP has the responsibility to tell the cilium agent that I need the rules, instead of Cilium agent trying to find to whom it should send the rules.(if that make sense)

Reviewer: We introduced tracking policy revisions per SDP instance to deal with this. On a connection, agent always sends policy information, on ACK, we track it against the connection, every policy update resulting in a revision bump we notify all SDP instances. On agent restart, we start over.

## Impacts / Key Questions

> ### Getting the DNS Rules

Reviewer: I think this section is now decently flushed out. I'm thinking we can move it from `Impacts / Key Questions` to the main proposal. We now have an agreement that this is how SDP should discover rules right.

## Impacts / Key Questions

### Getting the DNS Rules

> We need the DNS Rules for the Standalone DNS proxy to enforce the L7 DNS policy. The policy are the source of turth for the rules and are propagated to the agent when we apply the policy. We explore the options to get the DNS rules for the DNS proxy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need the DNS Rules for the Standalone DNS proxy to enforce the L7 DNS policy. Network policies are the source of truth for the rules and are propagated to the agent when we apply the policy. We explore different options SDP can stay up-to date with latest DNS rules : 
```

#### Option 1: Running the GRPC sever in the agent[Recommended]

> We can run a gRPC server in the agent to serve the DNS rules to the DNS proxy. SDP will be responsible for creating the connection with the agent. And once SDP establish a connection agent can keep track of the stream and send the DNS rules to the SDP. Agent can then reuse the same stream to send updates in the DNS rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can run a gRPC server in the agent to serve the DNS rules to the DNS proxy. SDP will be responsible for creating the connection with the agent. And once SDP establishes a connection, agent can keep track of the stream to notify SDP of DNS rules.
```

> In case, cilium agent is still not up, SDP will keep trying to connect to the agent until the connection is established. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case, cilium agent is still not up, SDP will retry until the connection is established. 
```

##### Pros

* SDP instances has the responsibility to connect to the agent.
* Reusing the same stream will be effiecient in terms of resources as we are not creating/destroying the stream for every update.

##### Cons

* An overhead on the cilium agent to keep track of the streams of the connected SDP instances.
* Streams are not thread safe, so if we have multiple threads using the same stream we will need to handle the synchronization.
* If SDP in future decides to handle policy updates as well, it will be tricky. SDP needs to keep trying to sync with CA as well as CA needs to keep a track of the SDP instances to send updates.

![standalone-dns-proxy-up-scenario](./images/standalone-dns-proxy-up-scenario.png)
![standalone-dns-proxy-down-scenario](./images/standalone-dns-proxy-down-scenario.png)

> #### Option 2: Running the GRPC server in the SDP as well

Reviewer: If option 1 is possible, do we really need option 2 ?

Author: We tested this option too as well.
I added it keeping in mind that SDP may/may not handle policy in the future. So we might need to consider a grpc server in the SDP.

Reviewer: SDP not handling policy would be violate the toFQDN spec right ?

Author: Sorry, I am not sure if I understand this. What do you mean by violating the `toFQDN` spec ?

Reviewer: I meant to say that SDP not enforcing L7 DNS policy is not an option right ?

* No overhead on the agent to keep a track of the open streams with the SDP.
* Better fault isolation(one stream failing does not affect the other streams)

##### Cons

* Resource intensive as we are creating a new stream for every update.
* If multiple SDP instance are running, we need to handle multiple grpc server on same address:port and send updates to each server from a agent.

#### Option 3: Reading the ep_config.json file in the SDP

We can read the DNS rules from the `ep_config.json` file. SDP will listen on the changes to the file and update the DNS rules accordingly. Cilium agent is the only one that writes to the file. Currently DNS rules are stored in the ep_config.json lazily as we only need those when DNS proxy restarts. We need to make sure that the DNS rules are updated in the file as soon as the policy is applied.
Storing the dns rules will require identities associated with the selector labels as current dns proxy implementation uses that to filter the DNS traffic OR will need to change the way dns porxy filters the DNS requests.

##### Pros

* No need to run a gRPC server in the agent/SDP.
* Removes the dependency on the agent to get the DNS rules.

##### Cons

> * Will change the current implmentation/flow of flitering the dns requests.

Reviewer: What changes wrt DNS requests ?

Author: I mean right now we filter based on the identities associated with the dns ip right ? If are writing to the file system similar to what is written currently i.e dns pod ip, the check would be to filter based on the ip rather than identities.
It depends on what we store in the file.

Reviewer: Alright, after today's sync, we can consider updating this section to include relevant details from `ep_policy.json`

> * Reading a file might not be as efficient as reading from a gRPC server.

Reviewer: Is this really true ?

Author: Didn't do a benchmark, but reading from local cache (through grpc) seems faster.

> ### Q : Why did we choose grpc option over reading from filesystem?

Reviewer: If we understand the rationale / find a workaround for lazy update of DNS rules, ep_config.json might still be preferred ? We should probably leave this open ended and remove option 1 as recommended ?

Reviewer: https://github.com/cilium/cilium/pull/33412 changes the preference here ?

Author: I think it depends on the performance of the both the options. Reading from the filesystem make sense to me in case of starting the SDP, but should that be default path to get the rules not sure. 
The overhead to read/file watch on every endpoint maybe too much in high scale environment. I think if we can segregate just the dns rules to a different file that might be a bit better though.
